# Plant Disease Detection with Yolo8

We must use library of Yolov8 given link

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics.git
```

After cloning the repository, we must execute given command inside ultralytics folder

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
 
After installing successfully repository of the YoloV8, you must also download the model and data set from 
Google Docs

```bash
URL:https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Xwj2voOcT_ELuRYqL_6tyCLEIZW78knW?usp=share_link
```
After installing the folder you will see 2 folder inside the Model
```
-Model
    -Plants.zip
    -runs 
 ```
The plants.zip generated by given data set and structured with restructre_plant.py script.

The runs folder is the where models located, we have 2 different trained model there


## Usage

1) restructure_plant.py : The validation dataset is used to tune the model's hyperparameters, such as the learning rate, to optimize its performance. Finally, the test dataset is used to evaluate the model's performance on new, unseen data. I mentioned a split of 70% for training, 20% for validation, and 10% for testing. This means that 70% of the data is used to train the model, 20% is used to tune its hyperparameters, and 10% is used to evaluate its performance.**I also mentioned that the data was grouped into healthy and sick categories. This means that the data was labeled or annotated based on whether a person in the dataset was healthy or sick.**



2) val.py : I mentioned that the second model had a validation accuracy of 100%, which means that it correctly classified all of the samples in the validation dataset. This is an impressive result, but it's also important to note that achieving 100% accuracy on a validation dataset doesn't necessarily mean that the model is perfect or will perform well on new, unseen data.
As for the first model, I mentioned that it achieved a validation accuracy of 99.7%. This is also a very high accuracy and indicates that the model is performing well on the validation dataset. However, it's possible that the model may be overfitting to the training data, meaning that it's memorizing the training dataset instead of learning to generalize to new data. 
3) test2.py :  where you can see one by one all the classification of the images and  every image  was classified correctly.
4) test3.py :  where you can see one by one all the classification of the images andevery image  was classified correctly.